---
layout: general 
title: Why Micro-Manager 2.0-gamma?
author: nico
share: false
modified:
categories: micro-manager
tags: [Micro-Manager, microscope control software]
image:
   feature: LaserSpeckles.jpg
   credit: Nico Stuurman
   cerditlink: http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~nstuurman
date: 2018-07-16T13:34-08:00
---

From the Micro-Manager mailing list (May 16, 2018): 


First, a bit of background:  While re-evaluating the beta branch about a year ago, Mark realized that there were quite a few api calls that were far from optimal.  Since the code was still beta, he started re-architecting in his mm2-next branch.  Since there were practical issues with beta, and since I knew the mark/mm2-next was the way forward, I decided late last year to pick up mm2-next, fix everything that did not work (and there was a lot of that because of the re-architecting), move to Java 8 and include the ClearVolume viewer plugin, and start building this branch (ViewerPlusCV, https://github.com/nicost/micro-manager/tree/ViewerPlusCV) as 2.0-gamma.  A couple of months ago, Mark merged a lot of the ViewerPlusCV branch back into mm2-next, and with a bit of work we hopefully will soon be able to start using the mm2-next branch as the final 2.0 beta version and all merge into that branch.

   In the mean time, our lab is running 2.0gamma quite successfully (although the horrible bug of occasionally stalling live mode is still there).  --Update 2018-07-16: I believe that bug is fixed now --


   On 5/16/18 4:04 AM, Seamus Holden wrote:
   >
   >     1. Does the mm2 branch on the primary GitHub repository
   >     (https://github.com/micro-manager/micro-manager) correspond to
   >     2.0beta or 2.0gamma?
   >

   2.0beta.  The source for 2.0gamma lives here: https://github.com/nicost/micro-manager/tree/ViewerPlusCV

   >     2. Is there a reason  why the link to the MM 2.0 gamma nightly
   >     builds has not been placed on the Micro-Manager wiki?
   >     Specifically, I'm referring to
   >     https://micro-manager.org/wiki/Version_2.0.
   >

   2.0gamma is my own "rogue" build.  It is basically a build for our lab that I make available to anyone who would like to use it.  A nice entry point to find the builds (plus my tutorial for the Singapore Focus On Microscopy Meeting) is here: http://valelab4.ucsf.edu/~nstuurman/fom/.  It is up to Mark to decide where the "official" release should point.

   >     3. I seem to remember a forum post in which someone said that
   >     plugins that are written for 2.0beta will not work in 2.0gamma,
   >     but I cannot find this post. Can someone confirm the
   >     incompatability of 2.0beta and 2.0gamma plugins?
   >

   There are changes in the api between 2.0beta and 2.0gamma, so it is likely that plugins will break.  These changes should be easily fixable, and I am happy to help find the easiest fix.

   >     4. If there is an incompatibility, where might I find the 2.0gamma
   >     plugin API?
   >

   Easiest is to work from source: https://github.com/nicost/micro-manager/tree/ViewerPlusCV.  I can try to figure out how to generate Javadoc, but that will take me a bit of time.

   > 5) What differences are there between 2.0gamma and 2.0beta?

   In most cases, Mark deprecated functions/classes and replaced them with newly named ones.  At one point, I got so confused by the long list of deprecated functions that I removed a bunch.  I think that Mark kept those in his mm2-next, so come to think about it, plugins may compile fine with mm2-next (which however, can not yet be used for any practical work).  Compiling them with ViewerPlusCV will either work, or there will be some missing functions/classes, in which case you will need to find the corresponding new versions.

   > 6) Why are there two different 2.0 branches? Are they going to merge?
   I hope I explained that all!  I very much hope this will all merge as soon as possible, I really want to get out of this as soon as possible, but it is out of my hands now.

   > 7) Which one - gamma or beta - is currently recommended for use?
   We run everything with gamma.  I will only work on gamma myself (recent new features include live ratio viewer, photon transfer curve generator, updates to the Localization Microscopy plugin for distance measuerements, on top of Java 8 and the ClearVolume-based viewer). Can't wait for it to merge with Mark's mm2-next though.

   Hope this explains things! 
